------ What is a proof? ------
1.1 Mathematical proof
    def: A formal proof of a proposition is a chain of logical deductions
    leading to the proposition from a base set of axioms
1.2 Propositions
    def: A statement that is either true or false

Random fact: A prime is an integer greater than one that is not
            divisible by any integer greater than 1 besides itself  

1.3 Predicates
    def: A proposition whose truth depends on the value of one or more variables.
    example: " N is a perfect square" is a predicate whose truth depends on the
    value of N. 

1.4 Axiomatic Method
    history: standard procedure for truth as invented by Euclid, in Alexandria, Egypt 300 BC.
            His idea was to begin with five assumptions about geometry. 
    ideas: important propositions are called theorems.
        A lemma is a preliminary proposition used to prove later propositions.
        A corollary is proposition that follows in just a few logical steps.

1.5 Our Axioms
    ideas: ZFC axioms  important but much to primitive. 
        Much like try to write programs in byte code.
        instead take all axioms from  high school math.

1.5.1 Logical Deductions
    def: are used to prove new propositions using previously proved ones.
    ideas: fundamental inference rule is modus ponens.

    Modus Ponens
        def: a proof of P together with a proof that P implies Q is a proof of Q.
        ideas: key part of a inference rule is that it must be sound.
            Many patterns in proofs. Few set "recipes" to follow.

1.6 Proving an Implication
    ideas: propostions of the form "If P then Q" are called implications.
    short: "If P then Q".
    
    method: #1
        1. Write "assume P".
        2. Show that Q logically follows.
    method: #2
        1. Write "we prove the contrapositive" then state contrapositive.
        random fact: contrapositive of the implication ("P implies Q") is not(Q) implies not(P).
        2. Procced as in Method #1.

1.7 Proving an "If and Only If"
    short: "iff"

    method: #1 Prove each statement implies the other
        1. Write, "We prove P implies Q and vice-versa".
        2. Write, "First we show P implies Q." Doing that with one of the previous methods from 1.6.
        3. Write, "Now we show Q implies P".

    method: #2 Construct a chain of Iffs.
        1. Write, " we construct a chain of iff implications".
        2. Prove P is equivalent to a second statement which is equivalent to a third statement
        and so forth until you reach Q.

1.8 Proof by cases
    idea: break a complicated proof into cases and prove each case separately.

1.9 Proof by contradiction
    idea: a indirect proof shows that if a proposition were false then some false fact is true.
    method: 
        1. Write, "we use proof by contradiction".
        2. Write, " Suppose P is false."
        3. Deduce something know to be false.
        4. Write, " This is a contradiction. There fore, P must be true."

1.10 Good proofs in practice
    idea: purpose of a proof is to establish the truth of an assertion with absolute certainty.
    1. State your game plan.
    2. Keep linear flow
    3. Proof is an essay not a calculation.
    4. Avoid excessive symbolism
    5. Revise and simplify
    6. Structure long proofs
    7. Be wary of the "obvious"
    8. Finish!

    
